Add notes and questions for n31689 (#798)
bitcoin-core-review-club/website: _posts/2025-04-02-#31689.md

commit:
---

## Notes

- Bitcoin Core uses the [nanobench](https://github.com/martinus/nanobench) library for a suite of ["microbenchmarks"](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/tree/master/src/bench) that measure the performance of individual components or functions in idealized conditions.

> - [`Chainstate::ConnectBlock()`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/0a1e36effaa5aa27bc5f2c4955c1fa2eb2f0c8fa/src/validation.cpp#L2437-L2786) does double-duty, partly responsible for validating blocks being connected to the node's tip, and partly responsible for applying their effects to the node's view of the UTXO set. (`CCoinsViewCache`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`Chainstate::ConnectBlock()`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/0a1e36effaa5aa27bc5f2c4955c1fa2eb2f0c8fa/src/validation.cpp#L2437-L2786) does double-duty: it is partly responsible for validating blocks being connected to the node's tip, and partly responsible for applying their effects to the node's view of the UTXO set (`CCoinsViewCache`).
```

        - One of the advantages of Schnorr signatures over ECDSA signatures is that they can be verified [in batches](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0340.mediawiki#batch-verification). A simplified description of batch verification is that instead of needing to prove that signature $A$ is valid for input $X$, signature $B$ is valid for input $Y$, and that signature $C$ is valid for input $Z$, we can add up signatures $A$, $B$, and $C$, to produce signature $D$, and add inputs $X$, $Y$, and $Z$ to produce input $W$, and then only perform a single verification, that signature $D$ is valid for input $W$.

> - Although in principle schnorr signatures can be validated in batches, Bitcoin Core today validates them individually just like ECDSA signatures. There is a PR open, [#29491](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/29491), that implements Batch Validation in Bitcoin Core, the motivation for this PR is to establish a baseline for signature validation performance in Bitcoin Core today, that can be used to validate and potentially quantify performance improvements that Batch validation would bring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Although in principle schnorr signatures can be validated in batches, Bitcoin Core today validates them individually just like ECDSA signatures. There is a PR open, [#29491](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/29491), that implements Batch Validation in Bitcoin Core. The motivation for this PR is to establish a baseline for signature validation performance in Bitcoin Core today, which can then be used to validate and potentially quantify performance improvements of Batch validation.
```

>     - [#31689](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/31689) introduces three `ConnectBlock` benchmarks, one for a block where all inputs that are spent use ECDSA signatures, one where all inputs are Schnorr signatures, and one where some are Schnorr and some are ECDSA?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [#31689](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/31689) introduces three `ConnectBlock` benchmarks, one for a block where all inputs that are spent use ECDSA signatures, one where all inputs are Schnorr signatures, and one where some are Schnorr and some are ECDSA.
```

### Meeting 2

-->

> u{% endirc %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% endirc %}
```
